Arsenal sack Unai Emery with Ljungberg taking over as caretaker – as it happened

David Tindall and 
Stuart Goodwin 

Fri 29 Nov 2019 17.51 GMT



First published on Fri 29 Nov 2019 09.27 GMT

 

5.51pm GMT
17:51

 That’s it for today’s live blog. Over 1,000 comments! Give yourselves a pat on the back and thanks very much for reading. 

5.36pm GMT
17:36

 The king is dead. Long live the (temporary) king. Here’s Nick Ames on what stand-in boss Freddie Ljungberg must do to get Arsenal back on track. 

5.32pm GMT
17:32

 A bit more here from Ole Gunnar Solskjaer on Paul Pogba’s fitness. The Frenchman has been out with an ankle injury since the end of September and, although he won’t be risked against Aston Villa at the weekend, Solskjaer isn’t ruling Pogba out for United’s next game when Jose Mourinho rides back into town with Spurs on December 4. Conspiracy theorists, of course, have ruled out Pogba ever playing for Man Utd again. Anyway, Solskjaer says this: Spurs? I can’t say now, because I’ve not been home and seen him, let’s see where he’s at when he comes back and starts training with us. Every player is allowed to be injured when he’s injured and Paul is working hard to get back. No one can doubt his professionalism, his willingness or his desire to play football. He’s one of the best midfielders in the world and it’ll be like signing a new player before the transfer window opens... He’s stepping up his recovery and let’s see how soon he’ll be match-fit and available. 

5.16pm GMT
17:16

 Massimiliano Allegri is holding firm as the clear favourite to become Unai Emery’s permanent replacement at Arsenal. The Italian is odds-on with several bookmakers while every other contender is quoted at 5/1 or higher. Wolves manager Nuno Espirito Santo and new temporary Arsenal boss Freddie Ljungberg come next in the markets while Eddie Howe and Patrick Vieira have both come in for support although it doesn’t take much (a few tenners based on a pub/taxi rumour) for the bookies to change their odds on candidates who were originally 20/1 or more.  Updated
at 5.18pm GMT
 

5.00pm GMT
17:00

 Newcastle v Man City preview here... Updated
at 5.00pm GMT
 

4.57pm GMT
16:57

 Leaders Liverpool will look to reach 40 points whilst still in the month of November when they host Brighton on Saturday. 

4.49pm GMT
16:49

 Are Leicester the real deal? Can they keep their fast start going? For now, they’re Liverpool’s nearest challenges but December’s daunting eight-game schedule includes showdowns against the leaders as well as champions Manchester City. Ahead of their weekend game against Everton, here’s Brendan Rodgers saying some stuff about how he’s approaching the busy run. Just the next game. One game at a time. We know that at some point we are going to have change to keep the energy in the team, but I’m not looking at Watford on Wednesday until after the Everton game. We’ve got a great sports scientist this season and we’ve got a fully-fit squad going into this run. There was a doubt over Jonny Evans but the defender has resumed training and has been passed fit after being forced off with cramp after 62 minutes at Brighton last weekend. 

4.38pm GMT
16:38

 Back to those Freddie Ljungberg facts...... yes, in a self-protest against banality, we finished off by putting a twist on a popular urban myth.  But glad plenty of you remembered the original Bob Holness usage. 

4.24pm GMT
16:24

 It hasn’t worked out for Unai Emery but Aston Villa boss Dean Smith is having a blast. Just hours after Emery’s sacking from Arsenal, boyhood Villa fan Smith penned a new four-year contract at the midlands club. Here’s what he said ahead of the weekend clash against Manchester United: I suppose because it’s been the biggest high I’ve experienced, getting promoted at Wembley for my home-town team, the highs have been very high. But I’m fairly level-headed and I’ve tried to be as consistent as possible, so I’ve not got too low, that’s for sure - I find more that my family and friends do that for me as Aston Villa fans. But it’s everything that I wanted and we’re progressing, and that’s the biggest thing for me. I came in last year and my remit under that contract was to get us promoted, and fortunately we managed to do that at the first time of asking. Now we’re 13 games into the Premier League season and I think the club is looking to push forward - well, I know it is. We have two owners who are invested into the football club, not just financially, but emotionally as well and it’s a club that I believe can grow a lot more than it is at the moment. 

4.13pm GMT
16:13

 Press conferences in the Premier League today have been peppered with questions about Unai Emery and here’s Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp on the Spaniard’s sacking... He (Emery) is an outstanding manager and he showed that in different countries and different leagues. He will be fine. He had big ambitions with Arsenal and it didn’t work out. Now Arsenal have to find a solution. Freddie is taking the club now, right, so that’s how it is. The coaches are there and they may be less experienced but that doesn’t mean a lot, maybe he can take the chance. Klopp also spoke about the psychological impact managers face. The main problem of us is that we are in public constantly, everything we do is judged, criticised. I decided long ago to ignore that as well so I have no clue what is written about us. If our results are bad I feel bad, if they are good I feel good. 

4.05pm GMT
16:05

 Not sure if Freddie Ljungberg is an Alan Partridge fan but his first assignment as stand-in Arsenal boss is a trip to Norwich on Sunday. For his opener in the Mustard City, Ljungberg will hope David Luiz is fit after being forced off in the 2-1 defeat to Eintracht Frankfurt on Thursday night with a rib injury. Hector Bellerin will be assessed at a travel tavern for a hamstring injury while Sead Kolasinac has recovered from his own minor hamstring issue and could feature.  Dani Ceballos is a definite absentee. 

3.45pm GMT
15:45

 Ankles are the main angle when it comes to Manchester United team news. No, they haven’t all swollen up after the 6,000-mile round trip to Kazakhstan; it refers to the respective injuries to Scott McTominay and Paul Pogba. McTominay has shaken off his ankle knock and is pushing to play against Villa but Pogba hasn’t, Ole Gunnar Solskjaer confirming that the Frenchman will again not be available.  Updated
at 3.46pm GMT
 

3.36pm GMT
15:36

 The Premier League said in a statement on Friday: “Following media disclosures earlier this week and discussions with David Pemsel, the Premier League has today accepted David’s resignation and he will no longer be joining as chief executive.” 

3.33pm GMT
15:33

 Freddie Ljungberg facts. Yes, we know you want them so let’s paint a fuller picture of the man in temporary charge of Arsenal. 

3.22pm GMT
15:22

 Here’s a concerned Jurgen Klopp talking about the loss to injury of key midfielder Fabinho. It’s “not cool” says the Liverpool boss. The 26-year-old, who has started 18 of 19 matches this season, could be out for between six to eight weeks with ankle ligament damage sustained during the midweek draw with Napoli. Losing a player with the quality of Fabinho is big, massive, really bad. But we are not the only team in the Premier League with injuries. We have solutions for the position, we have to replace him, we can replace him, we have played without him, we have played good without him. Will it be exactly like Fabinho? Of course not. Nobody is like the other one. But it will be a good one. It’s an opportunity for somebody else. Hendo (Jordan Henderson) played in that position, Gini (Wijnaldum) played in the position already. Adam Lallana played in the position. It’s not that they aren’t as good as him, it’s that they are different, have different qualities. We just have to make it work. That’s always the job. Fab couldn’t have played all the games from now until March, that was clear anyway. It’s not cool. We think a lot about it, but not in the case now ‘oh my God, how can we deal with it?’. It’s just ‘let’s do the right thing for Fab, let’s do the right thing for the team’ and let’s carry on. 

3.10pm GMT
15:10

 Staying on Man City, here’s a look at that showdown at Newcastle.  The Magpies won this fixture 2-1 last season with Rafa Benitez at the helm but has he passed on his secret notes to Steve Bruce? 

3.04pm GMT
15:04

 Manchester City boss Pep Guardiola has offered his sympathies to Unai Emery - but also dismissed the idea of assistant boss Mikel Arteta taking over at Arsenal. Arteta had five years at Arsenal, is a popular figure with Gunners fans and is seen as a live contender to replace Emery. Pep on Emery:  I am sorry for him. Every time a manager is sacked it is not good news. It does not change my opinion of him. He is an incredible professional. I am sure he will find another job soon. Pep on Arteta:  He is with the squad for Newcastle. It is not a question for me. Pep on Newcastle, this weekend’s opponents. Last season we lost. Newcastle away is one of the nicest stadiums in England. It is a tough test, but it will be next Tuesday at Burnley and then against Man Utd.  

2.46pm GMT
14:46

 Unai Emery’s sacking certainly hasn’t spooked under-pressure Everton boss Marco Silva. Definitely not. We know that because he’s just said these words: I don’t lose time thinking about that (speculation). I don’t waste my focus thinking about this situation. My focus is always on my players and what I can control and the next match. I didn’t read (anything). Of course I had more or less the feedback but not everything. I try to put all my energy into things that can help me and my players to perform and to improve what we should improve. It’s normal our board wants to speak with me to feel what is my opinion about the situation. But if you ask me if I felt support, if I felt we are united, for sure. I am feeling since the first day that situation.” Updated
at 2.53pm GMT
 

2.40pm GMT
14:40

 Chelsea must do without Tammy Abraham this weekend after the striker suffered a hip injury in the 2-2 draw at Valencia on Wednesday evening. Abraham sat out training at Chelsea’s Cobham base on Friday and will definitely miss Saturday’s Premier League clash with West Ham at Stamford Bridge. Michy Batshuayi and Olivier Giroud are waiting in the wings. Here’s Frank Lampard: We’ll know by the end of the weekend, he’s got some pain and won’t be involved tomorrow. But then we’ll know by Monday. The other lads have been training well, every day is a work day so whenever chances come they are ready and I have every confidence in them. 

2.31pm GMT
14:31

 There’s no official shortlist for the Arsenal job but I’ve had a plough through your comments for suggestions. The tongue in cheek factor is high but here goes: 

2.11pm GMT
14:11

 It’s bad news for Fabinho but good news for another Brazilian on Merseyside.  Yes, Richarlison has agreed a new contract extension with Everton. The 22-year-old joined the Toffees from Watford during July 2018 in a deal understood to be worth around £40m. He’s scored five times for Everton this season. 

2.08pm GMT
14:08

 With Unai Emery already gone today, could we see a repeat of Wednesday night’s Apprentice when Sir Alan Lord Sugar double fired Thomas and Marianne?  Everton’s Marco Silva is under the cosh but at least he’ll make it to the weekend it seems. Here is Toffees’ Director of football Marcel Brands speaking on Everton TV. He maintains everyone at the club must put on a united front.  As a board, we have got to support that. Of course, we know in sport, as always, you have to perform - that’s me, the manager, the players, for everyone. It’s also important, especially in this club, after a couple of years of instability, to stick together in this situation. I think it is important that everyone has the feeling that we can turn this around to better results. Most people know that I always go to the dressing room after the game, to see how the atmosphere is. Of course, everyone was disappointed last Saturday but you saw also really in the eyes of the players the fire that they want to resolve this, to turn this around - together with the whole staff. That’s important coming up towards the next couple of games. They will be tough games but games where we can improve. Updated
at 2.12pm GMT
 

1.55pm GMT
13:55

 Spurs boss Jose Mourinho is officially sad about Unai Emery’s sacking. It is always sad news. I felt it as a kid when my dad was sacked as a manager, I have felt myself when I have been sacked previously. There is not one single manager that is sacked that I am happy about, I always feel deja vu. I am sad, but that is life. Unai is a fantastic coach, not happy at Arsenal obviously, but a fantastic coach with a fantastic record. His career will be on track. Mourinho is also asked about whether he would manage Arsenal one day (although a better question would surely have been which north London club would he have picked had both been available before he took the Spurs job).  There is no point to tell it, it didn’t happen. It happened now. I am so happy here that I couldn’t even put the possibility of joining another club. You could point any club in the world in front of me and I would not join. 

1.44pm GMT
13:44

 Arsenal fans - a message from your (temporary) new leader ... However long I oversee @Arsenal for I will give everything I have to put smiles on faces again. We have a busy few weeks ahead and the team needs your support. Let’s get to work! pic.twitter.com/WdekcA4h5G Updated
at 1.48pm GMT
 

1.42pm GMT
13:42

 Just two teams have stopped Liverpool winning in 90 minutes at Anfield this season and Brighton will look to become the third on Saturday. The other two? Napoli on Wednesday night and, you guessed it, the Unai Emery-managed Arsenal in that crazy 5-5 draw in the League Cup. (Liverpool won on penalties). “We have to play well and hope they have an off day - but we can influence that and we certainly have to be better than we have been in the last couple of weeks,” says Brighton boss Graham Potter, who is boosted by the return of captain Lewis Dunk after suspension. 

1.31pm GMT
13:31

 Lots of feedback on Unai Emery’s sacking. Reader BC07 has summed up today’s news rather neatly in this poem: Unai EmeryAlready a distant memoryThe master of underachievingThank you and good ebening Updated
at 1.34pm GMT
 

1.19pm GMT
13:19

 Aston Villa head coach Dean Smith has signed a new four-year contract at the club. He told the club’s website: (I am) really pleased. Obviously it’s a club that I’ve got a strong affection for. I joined last year with a remit to try and get us promoted to the Premier League. We managed to do it last season and obviously that remit changes now to more of the longer term and making sure that we try and get Aston Villa back to where it’s been in previous years. Updated
at 1.22pm GMT
 

1.15pm GMT
13:15

 Bad news for Fabinho and Liverpool. The club have announced that the Brazilian midfielder suffered ankle ligament damage in Liverpool’s Champions League match with Napoli on Wednesday night and will be out of action until the New Year. A real blow given that Fabinho has established himself as one of the first names on Jurgen Klopp’s teamsheet. The Reds could play as many as nine games in December so his loss will be magnified.  

1.11pm GMT
13:11

 Not all Arsenal fans took the same view on Unai Emery. To twist a well-known catchphrase from another Emery, “You are awful, but we don’t like you” (one for older readers there) seems the general consensus but reader Peter Van has an alternative take. “I realise the only people on Earth to to espouse this opinion are probably me and Unai Emery’s mom. But please listen, if not to me then to Mrs. Emery: I think this sacking is a mistake. Unai deserved more time. The team improved massively last season compared to the final Wenger years. Some of Unay’s signings - Guendouzi, Torreira, Pepé - are brilliant players who haven’t yet had time to truly settle in. There were some encouraging signs early on this season before the wheels came off in the last month or so. But this sacking is a knee-jerk reaction that will force Arsenal to start from scratch again. I think we will look upon this in a year or so as a massive mistake.” Updated
at 1.22pm GMT
 

1.04pm GMT
13:04

 With Unai Emery departing and the axe hovering over Everton boss Marco Silva and West Ham manager Manuel Pellegrini, Bournemouth’s Eddie Howe is bound to get some awkward questions thrown his way. And, of course, he had to field some in today’s press conference ahead of the trip to Tottenham. The Cherries boss, who is under contract at the Vitality Stadium until the end of the 2019/2020 season, has a stock answer though: I always say it (managerial speculation) is definitely not distracting for me. I shelter myself from any kind of news that doesn’t influence the team I am preparing to play. I always say if I am linked, or my players are linked, with other clubs, then that has to be flattering and viewed as a good thing. But I spend no time focusing on those things. Updated
at 1.23pm GMT
 

12.58pm GMT
12:58

 An early look at Saturday’s clash between Southampton and Watford ... Updated
at 12.58pm GMT
 

12.52pm GMT
12:52

 It’s inevitable that Unai Emery will come out poorly when being compared with early Arsene Wenger. And here’s reader Thomas Atkins to do exactly that: “Emery inherited a hugely talented squad which needed some defensive discipline. He failed to instill that, and the signings he brought in were uninspiring. Wenger inherited an ageing defence and midfield who many thought were past it and gave them another five years of life, and he brought in Vieira, Petit, Anelka and (I think) Overmars. 18 months in, the team were ready to challenge for the league; at the moment the team can barely challenge for the top 10.” Updated
at 1.23pm GMT
 

12.39pm GMT
12:39

 Talking of numbers, here’s Watford boss Quique Sanchez Flores. Ahead of Saturday’s trip to fellow strugglers Southampton, the Spaniard is adamant that he won’t drive himself crazy by doing some basic calculations.  Someone told me that Burnley last year on December 26 had 12 points in 19 games - and in the end, they stayed up really well. But I am not doing this kind of count, it would be crazy to. If you lose your time doing maths it would be crazy. Updated
at 1.23pm GMT
 

12.35pm GMT
12:35

 Fun fact: Emery v Wenger - who is best? Find your nearest Arsenal fan in a pub or artisan cafe, and hit them with this teaser: Unai Emery accumulated 88 points in his 51 Premier League games with Arsenal. How many did Arsene Wenger win over his last 51? Answer: 88 - exactly the same. Nothing changed then! Updated
at 12.57pm GMT
 

12.26pm GMT
12:26

 Crystal Palace boss Roy Hodgson has been talking about not underestimating Burnley this weekend - which seems a bit odd given that Sean Dyche’s men are six places above them in the table.  In other Roy news, he’s played down a move for Liverpool’s Rhian Brewster, saying that he couldn’t guarantee the teenage striker first-team football. 

12.18pm GMT
12:18

 Also on many a list for next Arsenal manger is Eddie Howe. Here’s our very own Ben Fisher’s interview with the Bournemouth boss ahead of the Cherries’ trip to Arsenal’s north London rivals, Tottenham, this weekend. 

12.13pm GMT
12:13

 So, obvious next question.... who will be Unai Emery’s permanent replacement? PA Media have come up with a list of runners and riders: Massimiliano Allegri Serial trophy winner as a manager. The 52-year-old Italian departed Juventus at the end of last season having delivered the Serie A title in each of his five years at the helm, also claiming four Coppa Italia winners’ medals and losing in two Champions League finals. (Odds: 10/11) Nuno Espirito Santo The Wolves boss was initially linked to the Arsenal post as pressure on Emery began to mount during a string of poor results. Has previous experience of managing at Valencia and Porto but did not enjoy lengthy, successful spells with either. (Odds: 5/1) Mikel Arteta Ball-playing midfielder spent five years with the Gunners so has those all-important club connections. Yet to sample life as a head coach and currently Pep Guardiola’s trusted right-hand man - helping Man City win back-to-back Premier League titles. (Odds: 6/1)Freddie Ljungberg Confirmed as interim head coach following Emery’s sacking.The former Sweden international has worked as an assistant to Emery, after being promoted during the summer from his previous role as the manager of the club’s under-23 side. Perhaps can be viewed as the Frank Lampard option. (Odds: 8/1) Patrick Vieira Captain of Arsenal’s unbeaten ‘Invincibles’ and a man still adored by supporters, Vieira would be an overwhelmingly popular appointment.He has been steadily building up to such a job having managed Manchester City’s reserves and New York City before taking his current post at Nice last summer. (Odds: 20/1) Others listed by the bookmakers: 8/1 Mauricio Pochettino (imagine that!), 12/1 Carlo Ancelotti (would lead to better results against Liverpool), 16/1 Rafa Benitez (style issues?) Updated
at 12.15pm GMT
 

11.55am GMT
11:55

 Thanks Stuart. Okay, let’s use a series of bullet points to sum up today’s big news: Unai Emery’s sacking by Arsenal Updated
at 12.07pm GMT
 

11.43am GMT
11:43

 Another former Arsenal forward, Kevin Campbell, says Arsenal are “a mess”. Campbell, who was at the club from 1988-1995, told BBC 5 Live: “What’s important now is to get a manager in who has some structure where you see a pattern and where players know what they are supposed to do. “Arsenal right now are a mess, especially without the ball. They need structure and they need a plan. From the outside looking in the managers think: ‘I could manage there’ but the Premier League is a unique league as there are no easy games and every team play you hard. The smaller teams get up for the game, you have to be able to manage the players and Emery failed miserably in the end.” After a quiet (!) morning, time for me to hand over to David Tindall. Thanks for reading! Updated
at 11.54am GMT
 

11.32am GMT
11:32

 Here’s a fascinating new Sport Network piece by Richard Foster about the role of supporter liaison officers at clubs. There’s some pertinent stuff in there, particularly given the prominence fans’ groups now have at Premier League clubs … Arsenal were the first British club to appoint a supporter liaison officer, when they gave diehard fan Jill Smith the job of dealing with her fellow supporters. Mark Brindle succeeded Smith in the job five years ago. He is a full-time employee at the club and goes to every game. Brindle is one of the few SLOs in England who travels to all the club’s away matches, although this is common practice in most of Europe. “I act as the bridge between the club and the supporters and, significantly, I am now recognised by most fans as well as those within the club,” says Brindle. “SLOs are viewed differently at each club so, for example, we report into different people. My manager is in charge of the travel and events department, whereas many of the others report directly into the stadium management team.” Here’s the piece in full … 

11.29am GMT
11:29

 Jacob Steinberg News from the Stamford Bridge beat … Weirdly Chelsea seem to be the calmest Premier League club in London at the moment. Frank Lampard’s side host West Ham tomorrow and will expect to continue their good run against their struggling rivals, who could sack Manuel Pellegrini soon – however it seems they could be without Tammy Abraham. The striker suffered a hip injury against Valencia on Wednesday and he’s struggling to make it, which could mean Michy Batshuayi starts up front in the league for the first time this season. Encouragingly Abraham posted on Instagram this morning: “I’ll be back soon”. Updated
at 11.33am GMT
 

11.20am GMT
11:20

 Some numbers from Emery’s time in charge at the Emirates …  3 wins from 17 games against fellow “top-six” sides across all competitions.7 game winless streak between October and November, 2019 before his sacking.8 away Premier League wins during his time in charge, just one coming in the 2019-20 season.9 teenagers played for Arsenal under Emery.15 errors leading to goals for the opposition in Premier League games under Emery – more than any other top-flight club in that time.19 points dropped from winning positions.22 matches unbeaten during a fine run of form between August and December 2018.42.1 – the percentage of Arsenal’s goals scored by either Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang or Alexandre Lacazette under Emery – 64 of the 152 managed during his reign.43 wins from 78 games in charge.55.1 – the win percentage from those games. As a comparison Arsène Wenger’s was 57.2% from 1,235 matches. (Source: PA Media) 

11.16am GMT
11:16

 The former Arsenal forward John Hartson has his say … Hartson’s time at the club ended the year before Ljungberg arrived as a player. Ljungberg was a great help to Emery last night.. sat down for 90 mins.. surely you get in the managers ear if you can see what’s going wrong.. Emery had to go. 

11.12am GMT
11:12

 Wayne Rooney makes his managerial debut at Derby tomorrow. He arrived at Pride Park as player-coach this week but will oversee his team’s game against QPR, alongside manager Phillip Cocu, from the sidelines as he is ineligible to play until 1 January. This from PA Media:  The 34-year-old, who left MLS outfit DC United in October and has agreed an 18-month deal, told Rams TV: “I’m really looking forward to it. I’ve watched most of the games. It will be nice to get to Pride Park and meet the supporters. It’s been a long time since it was announced that I’d joined the club, so it will be nice for me but also for the fans. “Hopefully I can give the players and the fans a lift. It’s always exciting when you join a new club but when you get to meet the fans for the first time, it will be a nice feeling.  “It was important that I came in and got to know the players a bit more as well and over the next month I’ll have time to do that on a day-to-day basis. Home form has been really good, away form not so great. I think if we can try and pick up a few more points – pick up any points at the minute away from home – that will be great and will really help us. I feel if we can win two or three games on the bounce, it will put us in a good position and get us closer to the play-off spots.” Derby are currently 14th in the Championship, six points behind Swansea who currently occupy the last play-off position. Updated
at 11.27am GMT
 

10.59am GMT
10:59

 Emiliano Martínez, Arsenal’s second-choice goalkeeper, says goodbye to Emery and thinks the players are at fault for the club’s predicament. It may be a sentiment shared by others at the club, but as Martínez is yet to get on the pitch in the league so far this season, he’s essentially throwing his squadmates under the bus a little. Goalkeeping coach Javi García is among the team to have left the club alongside Emery. Thank you @UnaiEmery_ and Javi I’m sorry we let you down , it’s our fault for not performing the right way , I’m sure we will meet again❤️Gracias @UnaiEmery_ y Javi perdón por haberles fallado es nuestra culpa por no estar a la altura , nos volveremos a ver ❤️ pic.twitter.com/0mTrrjgUMv Updated
at 11.21am GMT
 

10.53am GMT
10:53

 Having earlier said “things can’t go on like this” (see 9.34am), Arsenal Supporters’ Trust have issued a new, and no less strong, statement in light of the almost instant developments … Headed “Arsenal need more change than just a new head coach”, it reads: The dismissal of Unai Emery was unfortunate but inevitable. Performances and results have been far below what is expected at Arsenal. But Emery’s departure is the easy part. The more difficult challenge is to recruit a suitable successor. We are far from certain that Arsenal has the right personnel to lead this process. The AST has long been advocating that the most important changes needed at Arsenal are in the Boardroom where Arsenal need better governance. It is a sad fact that the club is now wholly owned by an overseas investment vehicle, Kroenke Sports & Entertainment, who are largely absent from London. This means that the club needs to be governed by a strong Board in London, one that is truly independent and has the expertise and dynamism to drive a football club forward. Arsenal’s Board currently has no one with football expertise. Its three ‘independent’ members are 85, 79 and 77 years old. None of them have football experience nor reflect the diversity of Arsenal’s playing squads nor supporter base. A strong Board would be able to hold the club’s executive to account and to provide them with counsel. Arsenal also need to build better relationships with their supporters especially at the ownership/boardroom level. New appointments to the Board should include looking for people with the skillset to ensure better dialogue with supporters and provide a sense of purpose and direction. So if Arsenal are to genuinely move forward from today it requires not only a new head coach appointment but also a rejuvenation of the boardroom.” Updated
at 10.54am GMT
 

10.49am GMT
10:49

 Meanwhile, Premier League managers have been starting to take their Friday press conferences. This from PA Media on news from Newcastle’s Matt Ritchie: Newcastle boss Steve Bruce said he is devastated by the news that midfielder Ritchie will be missing until the end of January after undergoing a second ankle operation. Ritchie initially had surgery in October after being hurt in a challenge by Leicester’s Hamza Choudhury, but had to go under the knife for a second time this week after feeling discomfort following his return to training. Speaking at his pre-match press conference on Friday ahead of Saturday’s Premier League clash with Manchester City, Bruce said: “We’re all disappointed. “There’s nothing worse for a player than when you’ve had an operation like he’d had and the surgeon decides that he needs to do a little bit more. We’re devastated and so is he. We did give him a period of rest, he went to see the specialist again and had the operation again the next morning. “Unfortunately, that’s what it is. We hope this time that he’s back in training in early January – and it’s nothing too horrific, so they say. Let’s hope this time it’s done the trick.” 

10.44am GMT
10:44

 A little more on the man who will take charge against Norwich on Sunday. Freddie Ljungberg was part of Arsenal’s league-winning midfields in 2002 and 2004, and only became part of the first-team coaching setup in the summer, having returned to the club as under-23s coach in the summer of 2018. The 42-year-old Swede has no previous managerial experience, having spent six months as assistant coach at the German club Wolfsburg in 2017-18, but will take charge of the team for Sunday’s game at Norwich, with a home game against Brighton to follow on Thursday. It will be interesting to see how much time Ljungberg gets in the role, as he’d be sure to get a thunderous reception from fans at the Emirates if he is still in the post for their next home game, against Brighton on Thursday(!) at 8.15pm GMT(!!). Updated
at 10.44am GMT
 

10.37am GMT
10:37

 Emery has left Arsenal with the club eighth in the Premier League – eight points behind the top four, and behind both Burnley and Sheffield United. The Gunners are on a seven-match winless run that began with the home draw against Crystal Palace on 27 October. They were unlucky to lose out on penalties following a 5-5 Carabao Cup thriller against Liverpool, but then drew at home to Wolves in the league and away at Vitoria Guimaraes in Europe, before being outclassed 2-0 at Leicester.  The final straws proved to be last Saturday’s draw at the Emirates against Southampton, where they were extremely fortunate to get a point, while last night’s 2-1 defeat to Eintracht Frankfurt in front of a sparse crowd showed the fans were voting with their feet. Last season his side spluttered to fifth in the league after losing their final three games, but he took Arsenal to the Europa League final thanks to a brilliant 7-3 aggregate win over Valencia. However, it all ended with a 4-1 shoeing by Chelsea in Baku.  This season’s opening two victories in the league proved to be false dawns, and Arsenal have only added two more, with four wins from 13 Premier League games, six draws and three defeats. Updated
at 10.39am GMT
 

10.18am GMT
10:18

 Our news story on Emery’s sacking is now live …  Arsenal have sacked manager Unai Emery following the disastrous sequence of results that culminated in Thursday’s 2-1 home defeat to Eintracht Frankfurt in the Europa League in front of a largely empty Emirates Stadium. The club’s board had publicly backed their manager during the recent international break saying he was “the right man for the job” but that “things need to improve”. However Saturday’s toxic 2-2 draw with struggling Southampton and Thursday’s Europa League defeat seem to have forced their hand and Freddie Ljungberg will take temporary charge of the team. More here, and doubtless many, many updates to follow later today … 

10.12am GMT
10:12

 Arsenal have just released the following statement:  We announce today that the decision has been taken to part company with our head coach Unai Emery and his coaching team. Speaking on behalf of the Arsenal board and our owners Kroenke Sports & Entertainment, Josh Kroenke said: “Our most sincere thanks go to Unai and his colleagues who were unrelenting in their efforts to get the club back to competing at the level we all expect and demand. We wish Unai and his team nothing but future success.” The decision has been taken due to results and performances not being at the level required. We have asked Freddie Ljungberg to take responsibility for the first team as interim head coach. We have full confidence in Freddie to take us forward. The search for a new head coach is underway and we will make a further announcement when that process is complete. Updated
at 10.19am GMT
 

10.04am GMT
10:04

 Charlton owner Roland Duchâtelet has agreed to sell his stake in the Championship club to East Street Investments. The 73-year-old Belgian’s unpopular spell in charge of the Addicks will come to an end if the deal is approved by the Football League. East Street Investments chairman Matt Southall said in a statement: “We are privileged to take ownership of such an historic club and it is incredibly exciting to be part of the process of building a fresh future for the fans, loyal club staff and players of Charlton Athletic. More here … 

9.56am GMT
09:56

 Understandably, events at Arsenal dominate the football news agenda this morning. This remains your full countdown to all the weekend’s action, however. And first cab off the rank this morning was word from Anfield that draft plans now exist for a new 16,000-seat Anfield Road stand, which would take the stadium’s capacity over 60,000. The club have launched a public consultation exercise today. This from Andy Hunter …  The designs, part of a public consultation exercise launched on Friday, are for a new 16,000-seat stand that will increase the stadium’s capacity by 7,000. A planning application for an extra 4,800 seats at Anfield Road was allowed to lapse in September in favour of the more ambitious scheme. Liverpool’s plans are at the draft stage and do not include details such as an opening date, whether safe standing will feature or ticket prices, although the majority of the extra seats will be general admission. The development depends on the success of the public consultation, a second stage of which is planned for early next year, together with the planning application and the financial viability of the scheme. The club intends to pay for the construction via its existing banking facilities. Here’s Andy news story in full … Updated
at 10.00am GMT
 

9.47am GMT
09:47

 Arsenal’s official attendance last night, in terms of “tickets sold”, was 49,419. This in itself would be well over 10,000 down on the Emirates’ capacity of 60,260, but as the AST suggested, many, many fans stayed away for the match, tickets in hand or not. Those who did make the journey witnessed a sorry Europa League display, with their side losing 2-1 to Eintracht Frankfurt.  Updated
at 10.05am GMT
 

9.34am GMT
09:34

 A prominent fans’ group say supporters have reached the end of their tether with Emery … This from PA Media:  Raul Sanllehi, the club’s head of football, and managing director Vinai Venkatesham publicly backed Emery during the international break but results have not improved and the Arsenal Supporters’ Trust are demanding a response. “Last night more than half of Arsenal’s season-ticket holders didn’t bother attending the match despite having paid for their tickets. Those that did were left frustrated and angry at a performance and defeat that represented Arsenal’s worst run of results since 1992,” they posted on Twitter. “Things can’t go on like this. The club needs decisive action to address this. There should also be greater accountability from the new football management personnel as to what they are doing to address Arsenal’s decline.” Things can’t go on like this. The club needs decisive action to address this. There should also be greater accountability from the new football management personnel as to what they are doing to address Arsenal’s decline. pic.twitter.com/weoJFCwZVp Updated
at 9.35am GMT
 

9.31am GMT
09:31

 Full story from Jacob is now here … 

9.27am GMT
09:27

 Jacob Steinberg Freddie Ljungberg is preparing to take over as Arsenal’s caretaker manager after the club lost patience with Unai Emery following an awful run of form. Emery could be sacked as early as Friday after Thursday’s Europa League defeat by Eintracht Frankfurt in front of a sparse crowd at the Emirates Stadium.  There is serious unrest at the team’s downward spiral and Ljungberg, who played for the club between 1998 and 2007, is standing by to take over. Ljungberg has impressed since joining Arsenal as a coach and has been part of Emery’s backroom staff this season. The Swede is eager to become a manager and it is hoped he will energise a disgruntled fanbase. Updated
at 9.27am GMT
