London Bridge attack: two members of public killed and police shoot suspect dead – live updates
Police say two people have been killed and three people injured by a man wearing a fake suicide vest, who was shot by officers at the scene 
Kevin Rawlinson (now) and 
Matthew Weaver (earlier) 

Fri 29 Nov 2019 20.37 GMT



First published on Fri 29 Nov 2019 14.19 GMT

 

8.37pm GMT
20:37

 Here’s the full text of Cressida Dick’s statement: I am deeply saddened and angered that our city has again been targeted by terrorism. It is with the heaviest of hearts that I must now inform you that, as well as the suspect who was shot dead by police, two of those injured in this attack in the London Bridge area have tragically lost their lives. My heart goes out to their loved-ones and to the three further injured victims, who I understand are being treated in hospital, and of course to everybody who has been affected by today’s terrible and mindless events. The attack started at Fishmonger’s Hall in the City of London. My understanding is that police were called at 1.58pm and City of London police officers had bravely and professionally confronted the suspect by 2.03pm; just five minutes later. If you are concerned about anyone who was there today please try to contact them and if you cannot, then get in touch with us. I want to thank all the emergency service personnel who are currently working tirelessly to deal with this incident, particularly the police officers from the Met and the City who have worked so closely together to protect the public. I also want to thank the members of the public who have helped, either by showing extraordinary courage by stepping in or by following the instructions they’ve been given by officers at the scene and in the area. This support from our public assists us more than you could know. In the coming days, you will see more police – both armed and unarmed – patrolling our streets to help reassure those who are understandably concerned. Similarly, our counter-terrorism detectives will be working round the clock to identify those who have lost their lives, to support all the victims and their families. We are also working at full-tilt to understand exactly what has happened and whether anyone else was involved. For this reason we expect cordons to remain in place around the London Bridge area for some time. This afternoon, I met with the prime minister and the home secretary, and also had a meeting with the mayor. I’m very grateful for all their support. Indeed, we have been working closely with the government at every level and just as closely with our partners across London. This will obviously continue in the coming days. This joint effort mustn’t stop with the authorities, though. As you know, we are treating this as a terrorist incident. Fighting terrorism takes effort and determination from all of us. If you have any information or concerns, please do contact us. The empty ideology of terror offers nothing but hatred and today I urge everyone to reject that. Ours is a great city because we embrace each other’s differences. We must emerge stronger still from this tragedy. In doing that we will ensure that the few who seek to divide us will never, ever succeed. Police have asked anyone with information that could assist with their investigation to call the anti-terrorist hotline: 0800 789 321. 

8.29pm GMT
20:29

 One other update: Dick was unable to say whether or not the suspect was known to police, telling reporters only: “This is a very fast moving, dynamic investigation, we will keep you updated.” 

8.23pm GMT
20:23

 That concludes the Met commissioner’s statement; the main update of which seems to be confirmation of the numbers of people affected. To recap, Dick said two people died and three more are being treated in hospital. 

8.22pm GMT
20:22

 The Met commissioner says more armed police will patrol and, as part of Scotland Yard’s efforts to work out if anyone else was involved, cordons will remain for some time. Dick says she met the prime minister, the home secretary and London’s mayor and the police are working with the government. She reaffirms that the attack is being treated as a terror incident and asks for the public’s help in combating it. Dick says the ideology behind terrorism will never succeed. Taking questions, she says she’s unable to provide any updates on the conditions of those in hospital and she says she cannot confirm anything about the identities of those who died, adding that confirming identities is a priority for the police. 

8.18pm GMT
20:18

 Dick says officers were called at 1.58pm and had confronted the attacker within five minutes. She asks anyone worried about a loved-one to try to get in touch with them and, if they cannot, to contact the police. She pays tribute to the emergency services who responded and to the bystanders who intervened and then followed the instructions they were given by police, saying it assists officers “more than you can know”. 

8.16pm GMT
20:16

 Cressida Dick is speaking now. She confirms that two people died in the attack and three more are being treated in hospital. The suspect was also shot dead by the police. 

8.08pm GMT
20:08

 The Met police commissioner, Cressida Dick, will give a statement outside New Scotland Yard in about 10 minutes, police say. 

8.02pm GMT
20:02

 The London Ambulance Service says it took three people to hospital after today’s incident. We took three people to two hospitals following the incident in London Bridge today.We declared a major incident & worked closely with @metpoliceuk & @CityPolice The thoughts of us all at LAS are with everyone who has been affected by what's happened.https://t.co/IEmvBWpLJN pic.twitter.com/Plzrz9aecb It’s worth noting that the number of people injured could be greater because officials are not yet able to rule out the possibility that some people made their own way to hospital. Updated
at 8.05pm GMT
 

7.52pm GMT
19:52

 The prime minister will chair a meeting of the government’s emergency committee – known as Cobra – at 9.30pm, a Downing Street spokesman has said. 

7.46pm GMT
19:46

 A faked tweet made to look like it came from the account of Jeremy Corbyn has been circulating online. In the mocked-up screengrab, which we will not disseminate any further, it is made to appear as if the Labour leader expressed sympathy for the suspect, who was shot dead by the police, rather than for the victims of the terror attack. No such tweet every existed. Corbyn’s real statement following the attack can be read here. Footage from social media shows officers pointing weapons at a person on London Bridge in the capital. It's been confirmed a suspect has been shot by police after five people were injured in a stabbing incident near London Bridge. Footage from social media shows officers pointing weapons at a person on London Bridge in the capital. It's been confirmed a suspect has been shot by police after five people were injured in a stabbing incident near London Bridge.